Document Engine APIs (#1003)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/HowTo/Interact/APIs/Engine-API.md

---
description: How to enable and use the Engine API
---

> # Engine API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the Engine API
```

To differentiate between the reference page.

Author: Fixed

> The Engine API allows communication between [consensus and execution layers](../../../Concepts/Merge.md#execution-and-consensus-clients) of the [post-Merge](../../../Concepts/Merge.md) Ethereum Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [The Merge](../../../Concepts/Merge.md), consensus and execution clients communicate with each other using the Engine API.
```

Author: Fixed

These [API methods](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md) are a separate subsection of the [JSON-RPC API](API.md).

> ## Configuring the Engine API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the Engine API
```

Use simple present tense of verbs in headings.

Author: Fixed

To configure the Engine API, specify the [service ports](#service-ports) and [host allowlist](#host-allowlist).
Also [enable the JSON-RPC](API.md#enabling-api-access).

> Ensure the [`ETH` method is enabled](Using-JSON-RPC-API.md#api-methods-enabled-by-default) (It's enabled by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the [`ETH` method is enabled](Using-JSON-RPC-API.md#api-methods-enabled-by-default) (it's enabled by default).
```

Author: Fixed

> To configure the Engine API for use, specify the [service ports](#service-ports) and [host allowlist](#host-allowlist).
> You must also [enable the JSON-RPC](API.md#enabling-api-access).
> Ensure the [`ETH` method is enabled](Using-JSON-RPC-API.md#api-methods-enabled-by-default) (It is enabled by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Engine API, specify the [service ports](#service-ports) and [host allowlist](#host-allowlist).
Also [enable the JSON-RPC](API.md#enabling-api-access).
Ensure the [`ETH` method is enabled](Using-JSON-RPC-API.md#api-methods-enabled-by-default) (it's enabled by default).
```

Author: Fixed

### Service ports

To specify the port the Engine API service listens on, use the
[`--engine-rpc-http-port`](../../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#engine-rpc-http-port) or
[`--engine-rpc-ws-port`](../../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#engine-rpc-ws-port) options.

The default ports are:

* 8550 over HTTP.

> * 8551 over WebSockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 8551 over WebSocket.
```

Author: Fixed

> * 8550 over HTTP
> * 8551 over WebSockets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 8550 over HTTP.
* 8551 over WebSocket.
```

Author: Fixed

### Host allowlist

> To prevent DNS rebinding attacks, Besu checks incoming HTTP request host headers, WebSockets connections, and GraphQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent DNS rebinding attacks, Besu checks incoming HTTP request host headers, WebSocket connections, and GraphQL
```

Author: Fixed

requests.
Besu accepts requests only when hostnames specified using the
[`--engine-host-allowlist`](../../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#engine-host-allowlist) option matches the request host headers.
By default, Besu accepts requests and connections from `localhost` and `127.0.0.1`.

!!! important

    This isn't a permissioning feature.
    If you want to restrict access to the Engine API, we recommend using [authentication](#authentication).

If your application publishes RPC ports, specify the hostnames when starting Besu.

Specify "*" for `--engine-host-allowlist` to effectively disable host protection.

!!! caution

    Specifying "*" for `--engine-host-allowlist` is not recommended for production code.

## Authentication

> By default, [Authentication](Authentication.md) for the Engine API is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, [authentication](Authentication.md) for the Engine API is disabled.
```

Author: Fixed

To enable, set the [`--engine-jwt-enabled`](../../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#engine-jwt-enabled) to `true`.

Set the [JWT secret](Authentication.md#jwt-public-key-authentication) by using the [`--engine-jwt-secret`](../../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#engine-jwt-secret) option.

> ## Sending a payload using the Engine API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Send a payload using the Engine API
```

Author: Fixed

### 1. Prepare a payload

> Prepare to send a payload by using [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare to send a payload using [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv1).
```

Author: Fixed

!!! example

    === "curl HTTP request"

        ```bash
        curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV1","params":[{"headBlockHash": "0x3b8fb240d288781d4aac94d3fd16809ee413bc99294a085798a589dae51ddd4a", "safeBlockHash": "0x3b8fb240d288781d4aac94d3fd16809ee413bc99294a085798a589dae51ddd4a", "finalizedBlockHash": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"},{"timestamp": "0x5","prevRandao": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000","suggestedFeeRecipient": "0xa94f5374fce5edbc8e2a8697c15331677e6ebf0b"}],"id":67}' http://127.0.0.1:8550
        ```

    === "JSON result"

        ```json
        {
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "id": 67,
            "result": {
              "payloadStatus": {
                "status": "VALID",
                "latestValidHash": "0x3b8fb240d288781d4aac94d3fd16809ee413bc99294a085798a589dae51ddd4a",
                "validationError": null
            },
            "payloadId": "0x0000000021f32cc1"
          }
        }
        ```

### 2. Get the payload

> Get the payload with [`engine_getPayloadV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_getpayloadv1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the payload using [`engine_getPayloadV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_getpayloadv1).
```

Use consistent wording/syntax for parallel descriptions.

Author: Fixed

              "receiptsRoot": "0x56e81f171bcc55a6ff8345e692c0f86e5b48e01b996cadc001622fb5e363b421",
              "logsBloom": "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
              "prevRandao": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
              "blockNumber": "0x1",
              "gasLimit": "0x1c9c380",
              "gasUsed": "0x0",
              "timestamp": "0x5",
              "extraData": "0x",
              "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
              "blockHash": "0x3559e851470f6e7bbed1db474980683e8c315bfce99b2a6ef47c057c04de7858",
              "transactions": []
            }
        }
        ```

### 3. Execute the payload

> Execute the payload with [`engine_newPayloadV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_newpayloadv1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the payload using [`engine_newPayloadV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_newpayloadv1).
```

Author: Fixed

            "prevRandao": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
            "blockNumber": "0x1",
            "gasLimit": "0x1c9c380",
            "gasUsed": "0x0",
            "timestamp": "0x5",
            "extraData": "0x",
            "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
            "blockHash": "0x3559e851470f6e7bbed1db474980683e8c315bfce99b2a6ef47c057c04de7858",
            "transactions": []
          }
        ],"id":67}' http://127.0.0.1:8550
        ```

    === "JSON result"

        ```json
        {
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "id": 1,
            "result": {
              "status": "VALID",
              "latestValidHash": "0x3559e851470f6e7bbed1db474980683e8c315bfce99b2a6ef47c057c04de7858",
              "validationError": null
            }
        }
        ```

### 4. Update the fork choice

> Update the fork choice  using [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv1) again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the fork choice using [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV1`](../../../Reference/Engine-API-Methods.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv1) again.
```
